# MetroOfGotham
### School project : advanced data structures and algorithms

```
            _____          _     _                               __  __          _
           / ___/   ___   | |_  | |__     __ _   _ __ ___       |  \/  |   ___  | |_   _ __    ___  
          | |  _   / _ \  | __| | '_ \   / _` | | '_ ` _ \      | |\/| |  / _ \ | __| | '__|  / _ \ 
          | |_| | | (_) | | |_  | | | | | (_| | | | | | | |     | |  | | |  __/ | |_  | |    | (_) |
           \____|  \___/   \__| |_| |_|  \__,_| |_| |_| |_|     |_|  |_|  \___|  \__| |_|     \___/ 
  
```
## Spanning tree and pathfinding

Contributors :
- Leopold DUVERGER, @Leoduv
- Corentin AUBRY, @cjpmaubry

# Part 1 

## Libraries that have to be installed :
--> pip install csv

--> pip install math

--> pip install numpy

--> pip install networkx

--> pip install matplotlib

--> pip install pathlib


## Display graph and solution on connected network
We had to extract from the [image](map_gotham_metro.jpg) of the gotham metro network the position of the stations and display a graph with the different connections.
We put by **hand** the information in a [csv file](Station.csv) in order to store the information.
(The coordinates are in Pixels.)

The display of the graphs and solution can be seen in [this file MetroGRaph.py](Part1-MetroGraph.py)

### 1-1 Create and display a graph representing the Gotham City’s railways and subways below
Run the file "Part1-MetroGraph". Figure 1 shows the grpah representing the metro with all the lines and stations. In figure 2 the names of the stations are displayed with their corresponding number.

### 1-2 Which kind of algorithm create a connected graph while minimizing the total amount of distance? Show the algorithm? What is its complexity?
The kind of algorithm used is the "Minimum Spanning Tree".The algorith that we are going to use is **Prim's Minimum Spanning Tree**.
It has a complexity of **O(|V|^2)** ( V = vertices).

### 1-3 Show and display a solution of the connected network.
When running "Part1-MetroGraph", figure 3 will display the graph of the solution found by Rpim's algorithm.


# Part 2 Shortest Path

## Libraries that have to be installed :
--> pip install numpy

--> pip install networkx

--> pip install matplotlib


### 2-1 Which kind of algorithm create a connected graph while minimizing the distance to a unique city ? What is its complexit?
The algorith we are going to use is **Dijkstra's algorithm ( Dijkstra's Shortest Path First algorithm)**.
It has a complexity of **O((|E|+|V|)*log(|V|))** ( V = vertices and E = edges).

### 2-1 Show and display a solution of the proposed algorithm.
We had to use the matrice given by the subject to run dijktra's algorithm. 
Dijktra's algorithm uses 2 methods : one is used to return the minimum distance between some edges; and the other creates a figure displaying the minmum distance between Gotham and the other towns.

Dijktra's algorithm takes a matrix of connections and returns 2 figures. One displays all the distance between Gotham and the another town and the second figure displays the graph of connection (usefull for the next question).
Note: It's important to notice that in the graph, the values of the node start with 0. Because of that Gotham, which is defined as g0 in the topic appears at node 0 in the figure. Same for g1 appears at node 1 etc...

### 2-3 Show and display a solution of the problem
As we can see with the figure 1 generated by the Dijktra's algorithm, there are **7 leafs** on the graph. So we can say, it's necessary to send **7 volunteers.**

Note : We can see in the matrix given in the topic that go to city G4 directly from G1 or from G1 then G9, this is the same distance value (7,7). But the algorithm returns the path G1-G9-G4 because it's better in term of volunteers number.
(The algorithm first checks direct connections from G1 to the other and after it checks undirect connections. By doing that, if an undirect connection has the same distance, it will take the undirect connection to minimize the number of volunteers needed !)

# Part 3

## Libraries that have to be installed :
--> pip install csv

--> pip install pathlib

#### Dataset created
In this part we use a dataset composued of thr ID of a member, the name of that member, and the id of the member that certified him.

### 3-1 Suggest and show a greedy method to find an ID in a (linear) database. What is its complexity ?
We used an algorithm that scans the entire dataset **element by element** to find the ID (it stops as soon as it finds it).
It has a complexity of **O(n)**.
The database is in the file called "DatasetPart3.csv " (ID,Name,IDofconfirmed). It stores the ID and the name of the member and the Id of the member that certified this member.
Note : In this dataset the Id is already sorted (Automaticaly sorted when the CSV was created), but the methode FindID also works for unsorted data.

### 3-2 Suggest and show a divide and conquer method to find an ID in a (linear) database. What is its complexity ?
Because for the moment we use a sorted database we decided to use the method of a **dichotomic search** algorithm.
It has a complexity of **O(log(n))**
Note : Both research algorithms search the ID of a member in the dataset. If the ID is in the dataset, the algorithm displays in the console a message informing the ID is in the Dataset, the name of the member and also the name of the member that certified him.

### 3-3 Suggest and show a method that sort the (linear) database and find an ID. What is its complexity ?
First we decided to use another dataset named "DatasetPart3NotSort.csv" : we modified the order of the elements to "unsort" the IDs. In that way we can apply the sort method.
We decide to use the sort algorithm **merge sort.** 
It has a complexity of **O(nlog(n))**

### 3-4 Show and display the three methods with an example of database of your choice (at least 50 data)
We decided to use the unsorted database ( DatasetPart3NotSort.csv).
We first call the main launch the FindID method (Question 3-1), which displays the research of the ID number 10.
Secondly it launches the **sort method** (in order to apply the dichotomic search after).
Finally it launches the **dichotomic search algorithm** for the ID number 12.
All the ID numbers could be changed in the mainif you want to test with other. 

# Part 4
## Libraries that have to be installed :
--> pip install csv

--> pip install pathlib